= isplayer =

; isplayer : integer ( pcname : string )
: Tests whether a player with the specified name exists in the game database.

== Description ==

The '''isplayer''' function checks if a player with the given name exists in the game's player database. This is useful for validating player names before performing operations like deletion, or for checking if a character has been properly saved. The function works regardless of whether the player is currently online or offline.

== Parameters ==

; pcname : string
: The name of the player to check for existence in the database.

== Return Value ==

; integer
: Returns TRUE (1) if a player with the specified name exists in the database, or FALSE (0) if not.

== Examples ==

=== Basic Player Validation ===
 if (not isplayer(arg))
 {
    sendtext(arg + " is not a character.&n", self);
    quit;
 }
 
This validates that the provided argument corresponds to an existing player character.

=== Guest Account Check ===
 if (not isplayer(self.name))
 {
    sendtext("<div class='score'>You remain a GUEST until you 'save' yourself</div><br/>", self);
    quit;
 }
 
This example from a score command checks if the current character has been saved yet (guest accounts don't exist in the database until saved).

=== Admin Delete Validation ===
 if (self.level > 200)
 {
    if (not isplayer(arg))
    {
       sendtext(arg + " is not a character.&n", self);
       quit;
    }
    delete_player(arg);
    sendtext(arg + " has been deleted.&n", self);
 }
 
This shows how an administrator can validate a player exists before deleting them.

== Usage Notes ==

* The function checks the player database, not just online players
* Guest accounts (unsaved characters) will return FALSE since they don't exist in the database yet
* This is commonly used with '''delete_player()''' to validate before deletion
* Player names are case-sensitive for the lookup
* The function uses '''find_player_id()''' internally to locate the player

== Common Use Cases ==

* Validating player names before administrative operations
* Checking if a character has been saved (distinguishing guests from real characters)
* Preventing operations on non-existent players
* Admin tools for player management

== See Also ==

; delete_player : Deletes a player from the database
; findunit : Finds a unit by name (online units only)
; findsymbolic : Finds a unit by symbolic name 