= itoa =

; itoa : string ( i : integer )
: Converts an integer to its string representation.

== Description ==

The '''itoa''' function converts an integer value to a string containing the decimal representation of that number. This is commonly used for displaying numerical values in messages, constructing strings with numbers, or converting numbers for string operations.

== Parameters ==

; i : integer
: The integer value to convert to string.

== Return Value ==

; string
: Returns a string containing the decimal representation of the input integer.

== Examples ==

=== Basic Conversion ===
 s := itoa(42);
 // s now contains "42"
 
Simple conversion of a number to string.

=== Message Construction ===
 act("You have "+itoa(self.hp)+" hit points remaining.", 
     A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
 
Displays current hit points in a message to the player.

=== String Concatenation ===
 id := "$reward "+ self.symname + " " + itoa(self.idx) + " "+ juris;
 
Constructs a database key using unit index converted to string.

=== Time Display ===
 act("Only "+itoa(du)+" hours till freedom!", 
     A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
 
Shows remaining time in jail with converted number.

=== Database Operations ===
 jd.extra.[id].descr := self.name+" is currently serving time in jail. "+itoa(du)+" hours remaining";
 
Updates database description with numeric information.

== Usage Notes ==

* Converts integers to decimal string representation
* Commonly used with '''sendtext()''' and '''act()''' for displaying numbers
* Complementary to '''atoi()''' which converts strings to integers
* Essential for constructing messages that include numerical values
* Used frequently in score displays, time displays, and status messages

== Common Use Cases ==

* Displaying player statistics (HP, mana, experience)
* Showing time remaining or elapsed time
* Constructing database keys with numeric components
* Creating debug or log messages with values
* Building command outputs with numerical data

== See Also ==

; atoi : Converts a string to an integer
; sendtext : Sends text to a player
; act : Sends formatted messages to units
; moneystring : Converts money amounts to formatted strings 