= key =

; key : string (RO)
: The key identifier that will open this unit.

== Description ==

The '''key''' field is a read-only string property that contains the key identifier required to open or unlock a unit. This is typically used on doors, containers, and other lockable objects. The key value is usually in the format "key_name@zone" and corresponds to a key object that players can possess.

== Field Access ==

; unit.key : string (Read-Only)
: Returns the key identifier string for this unit.

== Examples ==

=== Basic Key Check ===
 if (item.key == "")
 {
    act("Odd, you can't seem to find a keyhole.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
    return;
 }
 
This checks if an item has a key defined before attempting lock/unlock operations.

=== Key Validation ===
 pc := findsymbolic(self, item.key, FIND_UNIT_IN_ME);
 
 if ((pc == null) and (self.level < IMMORTAL_LEVEL))
 {
    act("You don't seem to have the proper key.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
    return;
 }
 
This searches the player's inventory for the required key object.

=== Display Key Information ===
 sendtext("Key required: " + item.key, self);
 
This displays what key is needed for an object.

=== Key Format Examples ===
 "bronze_key@midgaard"
 "big_key@blackzon"
 "door_key@myzone"
 
Typical key identifier formats.

== Usage Notes ==

* The key field is read-only and cannot be modified directly
* Key identifiers are typically in "name@zone" format
* The key string corresponds to the symbolic name of a key object
* Players must possess the matching key object to open locked items
* Immortals (level >= IMMORTAL_LEVEL) can often bypass key requirements
* Empty string ("") indicates no key is required or the unit is not lockable

== Common Use Cases ==

* Checking if doors or containers can be locked/unlocked
* Validating that players have the correct key
* Displaying key requirements to players
* Implementing lock/unlock commands
* Creating puzzles with specific key requirements

== Related Fields ==

; openflags : Contains lock/unlock state information
; findsymbolic : Used to locate key objects in inventory

== See Also ==

; findsymbolic : Finds units by symbolic name
; isset : Tests flag bits like EX_LOCKED
; openflags : Field containing open/lock state
; EX_LOCKED : Flag indicating locked state 