= type =
 field: integer '''.type''' (Read-only)

The '''type''' field returns the type identifier of a unit or command.

== Description ==
This field provides access to the type identifier of a unit or command. For units, it returns one of the UNIT_ST_* constants indicating whether the unit is a player character, non-player character, object, or room. For commands, it returns the command type identifier. This field is read-only and is commonly used for type checking and conditional logic in DIL programs.

== Field Access ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Access !! Type !! Description
|-
| Read || integer || Returns the type identifier of the unit or command
|}

== Availability ==
This field is available on the following types:
* unitptr (All unit types: UNIT_ST_PC, UNIT_ST_NPC, UNIT_ST_OBJ, UNIT_ST_ROOM)
* cmdptr (Command pointer)

== Examples ==
=== Check Unit Type ===
 dilbegin check_unit_type(u : unitptr);
 var
     unit_type : integer;
 code
 {
     unit_type := u.type;
     
     if (unit_type == UNIT_ST_PC)
     {
         sendtext("This is a player character.<br/>", self);
     }
     else if (unit_type == UNIT_ST_NPC)
     {
         sendtext("This is a non-player character.<br/>", self);
     }
     else if (unit_type == UNIT_ST_OBJ)
     {
         sendtext("This is an object.<br/>", self);
     }
     else if (unit_type == UNIT_ST_ROOM)
     {
         sendtext("This is a room.<br/>", self);
     }
 } dilend

=== Validate Target ===
 dilbegin validate_target(tgt : unitptr);
 code
 {
     // Only allow targeting of characters
     if (not (tgt.type & (UNIT_ST_PC | UNIT_ST_NPC)))
     {
         sendtext("You can only target characters!<br/>", self);
         quit;
     }
     
     // Continue with valid target...
     sendtext("Target validated: " + tgt.name + "<br/>", self);
 } dilend

=== Command Information ===
 dilbegin command_info(cmd : cmdptr);
 var
     cmd_type : integer;
 code
 {
     cmd_type := cmd.type;
     sendtext("Command: " + cmd.name + " Type: " + itoa(cmd_type) + "<br/>", self);
 } dilend

=== Room Validation ===
 dilbegin room_validation(room : unitptr);
 code
 {
     // Ensure we're in a room
     if (room.type != UNIT_ST_ROOM)
     {
         act("$1n looks confused about $1s surroundings.",
             A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_ALL);
         quit;
     }
     
     sendtext("Room confirmed: " + room.title + "<br/>", self);
 } dilend

== Usage Notes ==
* For unitptr, the field returns one of the UNIT_ST_* constants:
** UNIT_ST_PC - Player Character
** UNIT_ST_NPC - Non-Player Character  
** UNIT_ST_OBJ - Object
** UNIT_ST_ROOM - Room
* For cmdptr, the field returns command-specific type information.
* The field is read-only; attempts to modify it will fail.
* Commonly used in conditional statements to determine unit behavior.
* Essential for type validation before accessing unit-specific fields.
* Often used with bitwise operations to check multiple unit types simultaneously.

== Error Handling ==
* Attempting to access the '''type''' field on a null or invalid pointer will result in a DILV_FAIL condition.
* The field will return DILV_ERR if accessed on an inappropriate type that doesn't support type checking.
* No error occurs for valid unitptr or cmdptr types.

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/unitptr|unitptr]] - Unit pointer type documentation
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/cmdptr|cmdptr]] - Command pointer type documentation
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/findrndunit|findrndunit]] - Function that uses unit type filtering
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/foreach|foreach]] - Function that can iterate by unit type

== See Also ==
* Unit type constants (UNIT_ST_*)
* Command type documentation
* Type checking and validation functions