= exit_names =

'''exit_names[]''' is used to access the name list for room exits. This field is available only on room units (UNIT_ST_ROOM) and provides read/write access to the list of names that players can use to reference the exit.

== Syntax ==
  name_list := room_unit.exit_names[direction];
  room_unit.exit_names[direction] := new_name_list;

== Parameters ==
; direction
: An integer specifying the exit direction. Must be one of the directional constants (NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST, UP, DOWN) as defined in values.h and/or vme.h.

== Return Value ==
Returns a stringlist containing all the names that can be used to reference this exit. The first name in the list ([0]) is typically the primary name displayed to players.

== Description ==
The '''exit_names''' field provides access to the list of names associated with a room exit. These names are what players type to use the exit (e.g., "door", "gate", "north", "open grate"). The field returns a reference to the actual name list, allowing both reading and writing.

Each exit can have multiple names, allowing for:
* Multiple ways to reference the same exit
* Descriptive names that change based on exit state
* Complex exits like "open grate" vs "closed grate"

== Examples ==
=== Getting the primary exit name ===
 primary_name := room.exit_names[NORTH].[0];
 act("You see $2t to the north.", A_ALWAYS, self, primary_name, null, TO_CHAR);

=== Checking all exit names ===
 names := room.exit_names[EAST];
 i := 0;
 while (i < length(names))
 {
    act("Exit name: $2t", A_ALWAYS, self, names.[i], null, TO_CHAR);
    i := i + 1;
 }

=== Using exit names in messages ===
 if (isset(room.exit_info[SOUTH], EX_CLOSED))
 {
    act("The $2t is closed.", A_ALWAYS, self, room.exit_names[SOUTH].[0], null, TO_CHAR);
 }
 else
 {
    act("The $2t stands open.", A_ALWAYS, self, room.exit_names[SOUTH].[0], null, TO_CHAR);
 }

=== Modifying exit names ===
 new_names := {"secret door", "hidden passage", "wall"};
 room.exit_names[WEST] := new_names;

=== Dynamic exit names based on state ===
 if (isset(room.exit_info[UP], EX_CLOSED))
 {
    room.exit_names[UP] := {"closed hatch", "trapdoor"};
 }
 else
 {
    room.exit_names[UP] := {"open hatch", "opening"};
 }

== Notes ==
* The exit must exist for the specified direction, otherwise the operation will fail
* The direction parameter must be valid (0 to MAX_EXIT-1)
* This field is only available on room units (UNIT_ST_ROOM)
* The first name ([0]) is typically used for display purposes
* Players can use any name in the list to reference the exit
* Modifying exit names affects how players interact with the exit immediately
* Empty name lists may cause the exit to be unusable

== See Also ==
* [[exit_info]] - Get/set exit flags (closed, locked, etc.)
* [[exit_to]] - Get the destination room of an exit
* [[exit_key]] - Get the key required for an exit
* [[stringlist]] - Working with string lists
* [[act]] - Display messages to players