= exit_info =

'''exit_info[]''' is used to access the flag bits for room exits. This field is available only on room units (UNIT_ST_ROOM) and provides read/write access to the exit's condition flags.

== Syntax ==
  integer_value := room_unit.exit_info[direction];
  room_unit.exit_info[direction] := new_value;

== Parameters ==
; direction
: An integer specifying the exit direction. Must be one of the directional constants (NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST, UP, DOWN) as defined in values.h and/or vme.h.

== Return Value ==
Returns an integer containing the flag bits for the specified exit. The flags can be tested and modified using standard bit operations.

== Description ==
The '''exit_info''' field provides access to the condition flags that control how an exit behaves. These flags determine whether an exit is closed, locked, hidden, etc. The field returns a reference to the actual exit flags, allowing both reading and writing.

Common exit flags (EX_*) include:
; EX_CLOSED
: The exit is closed and cannot be passed
; EX_LOCKED
: The exit is locked and requires a key
; EX_HIDDEN
: The exit is hidden from players
; EX_PICKPROOF
: The exit cannot be picked
; EX_NOPASS
: The exit cannot be passed even when open
; EX_NOFLEE
: Players cannot flee through this exit
; EX_CLIMB
: The exit requires climbing
; EX_WIZARD
: Only wizards can use this exit

== Examples ==
=== Checking if an exit is closed ===
 if (isset(room.exit_info[NORTH], EX_CLOSED))
 {
    act("The door to the north is closed.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
 }

=== Opening an exit ===
 unset(room.exit_info[EAST], EX_CLOSED);
 unset(room.exit_info[EAST], EX_LOCKED);
 act("The eastern door swings open.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_ALL);

=== Locking an exit ===
 set(room.exit_info[SOUTH], EX_CLOSED);
 set(room.exit_info[SOUTH], EX_LOCKED);

== Notes ==
* The exit must exist for the specified direction, otherwise the operation will fail
* The direction parameter must be valid (0 to MAX_EXIT-1)
* This field is only available on room units (UNIT_ST_ROOM)
* Modifying exit flags affects the actual game world immediately

== See Also ==
* [[exit_names]] - Get the names of exits
* [[exit_to]] - Get the destination room of an exit
* [[isset]] - Test if a flag bit is set
* [[set]] - Set a flag bit
* [[unset]] - Clear a flag bit