= findsymbolic =
 function: unitptr '''findsymbolic'''(s : string)
 function: unitptr '''findsymbolic'''(s : string, idx : integer)
 function: unitptr '''findsymbolic'''(u : unitptr, s : string, i : integer)

The '''findsymbolic''' function finds units by their symbolic name, supporting three different forms for various search scenarios.

== Description ==
This routine supplements '''findunit()''' and '''findroom()'''. It comes in handy if it is important to get a unitptr to a unit in the world. This is super fast and a great routine if it doesn't matter where in the world the unit is.

=== Single Parameter Form ===
This form finds any unit (player, room, object, NPC) by its symbolic name. If there are multiple instances of the same symbolic name, it will return a random one of them.

=== Two Parameter Form ===
This form helps you find a precise unique unit in the world. The idx parameter allows you to match a specific instance when there are multiple units with the same symbolic name. For players it will find the online player regardless of the idx.

=== Three Parameter Form ===
This form searches for a unit relative to a specific unit within defined environments. It will return the first unit matching the symbolic name in the specified search locations.

== PARAMETERS ==
=== Single Parameter Form ===
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| s || string || Symbolic name of the unit to find (player, room, object, NPC) in the format "name@zone"
|}

=== Two Parameter Form ===
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| s || string || Symbolic name of the unit to find (player, room, object, NPC) in the format "name@zone"
|-
| idx || integer || The index to match for finding a precise unique unit, see unitptr.idx
|}

=== Three Parameter Form ===
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| u || unitptr || Search is relative to this unit
|-
| s || string || Symbolic name of the NPC or Object to find in the format "name@zone"
|-
| i || integer || FIND_UNIT_XXX bit vector of places to search
|}

== Examples ==
bread := findsymbolic("bread@midgaard");

// Presume target is pointing to a particular cityguard
s := target.symname; // Save the symbolic name
i := target.idx;
// Do stuff. Wake up 9 hours later. Find the target again like this:
target := findsymbolic(s, i);
// and if the guard is still alive you'll get your pointer back.

// Mary needs to check if she has her own cooking pot
pot := findsymbolic(self, "pot@haon_dor", FIND_UNIT_IN_ME);

== Usage Notes ==
* Use '''findsymbolic()''' when you need to find a specific unit regardless of location
* Use '''findsymbolic(s, idx)''' when you need to find a precise instance among duplicates
* Use '''findsymbolic(u, s, i)''' when you need to search relative to a specific unit
* For players, the two-parameter form will find the online player regardless of idx

== Error Handling ==
* Returns null if no matching unit is found
* Invalid symbolic names will return null
* Invalid FIND_UNIT_* values may cause unexpected behavior

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[findunit()]] - Find a unit by name within a specific environment
* [[findroom()]] - Find a room by symbolic name
* [[unitptr.idx]] - Unique identifier for unit instances

== See Also ==
* FIND_UNIT_* constants documentation
* Symbolic name conventions