= flog =

== Syntax ==
 integer flog( filename : string, s : string, wa : string )

== Parameters ==
; filename : string
: The Filename of the file to appear in the log directory.
; s : string
: The string to be logged.
; wa : string
: Write or Append mode - must be "w" or "a" (lowercase, surrounded by quotes)

== Return Value ==
Returns integer (typically 0 on success, non-zero on error).

== Description ==
The flog function allows you to split up your logs in the log directory so that you don't end up with everything in the main vme.log.

The append/write argument must be in lower case and can only be a 'w' or a 'a' surrounded by quotes. If the argument is a 'w' it will overwrite any log file by that name. If the argument is an 'a' it will append to the file by that name.

'''Note:''' This function requires zone access level > 1 to use.

== Examples ==
=== Example 1: Zone Logging ===
 dilbegin zonelog (s:string);
 code
 {
    flog (self.zonidx+".log", s, "a");
    return;
 }
 dilend

=== Example 2: Bug Report Logging ===
 t := z.symname + " ["+self.name+"] " + asctime(realtime)+ argument;
 t := textformat(t);
 i := flog("bugs", t, "a");

=== Example 3: Overwrite Log ===
 // Create a fresh daily log
 flog("daily.log", "Daily log started: " + asctime(realtime), "w");

== File Modes ==
; "w"
: Write mode - creates new file or overwrites existing file
; "a"
: Append mode - adds to end of existing file or creates new file

== Security ==
The function checks for zone access level. If the calling DIL program doesn't have sufficient access (level > 1), it will log an error message and terminate.

== See Also ==
* [[Manual:DIL Manual/log()|log()]] - Write to main game log
* [[Manual:DIL Manual/logcrime()|logcrime()]] - Log criminal activities
* [[Manual:DIL Manual/asctime()|asctime()]] - Format timestamp for log entries