= insert =

; insert( sl : stringlist or intlist, i : integer, s : string or integer ) 
: Inserts a value into a stringlist or intlist at the specified index position.

== Description ==

The '''insert''' function allows you to insert a value into a stringlist or intlist at a specific position without having to rebuild the entire list. This is more efficient than manually recreating the list when you need to insert elements in the middle of an existing list.

The function automatically handles both stringlist and intlist types based on the first parameter's type.

== Parameters ==

; sl : stringlist or intlist
: The stringlist or intlist you are inserting into. This must be a variable reference, not a static list.

; i : integer
: The index position where you want to insert the value. The list will be expanded to accommodate this position if necessary.

; s : string or integer
: The value you want to insert. For stringlist, this should be a string. For intlist, this should be an integer (or a string that can be converted to an integer).

== Usage ==

=== Inserting into Stringlist ===

 dilbegin insert_string_example();
    var
       names : stringlist;
    code
    {
       names := {"Alice", "Charlie", "David"};
       
       // Insert "Bob" at position 1 (0-based indexing)
       insert(names, 1, "Bob");
       
       // Result: {"Alice", "Bob", "Charlie", "David"}
    } dilend

=== Inserting into Intlist ===

 dilbegin insert_int_example();
    var
       numbers : intlist;
    code
    {
       numbers := {10, 30, 40};
       
       // Insert 20 at position 1
       insert(numbers, 1, 20);
       
       // Result: {10, 20, 30, 40}
    } dilend

=== Inserting at End ===

 dilbegin insert_at_end();
    var
       items : stringlist;
    code
    {
       items := {"first", "second"};
       
       // Insert at the end using length()
       insert(items, length(items), "third");
       
       // Result: {"first", "second", "third"}
    } dilend

=== Practical Example from DIL Code ===

This example from the prompt shows how insert is used in a donation system:

 dilbegin donation_system();
    var
       donor_names : stringlist;
       donor_amounts : intlist;
       donor_name : string;
       amount : integer;
    code
    {
       // Add new donor at the end of the lists
       donor_name := "JohnDoe";
       amount := 100;
       
       insert(donor_names, length(donor_names), donor_name);
       insert(donor_amounts, length(donor_amounts), amount);
    } dilend

== Return Value ==

This function does not return a value. It modifies the list in-place.

== Indexing ==

The function uses 0-based indexing:
* Position 0 inserts at the beginning of the list
* Position equal to the current length appends to the end
* Positions beyond the current length expand the list with empty values

== Type Handling ==

* For '''stringlist''': The third parameter should be a string
* For '''intlist''': The third parameter can be an integer or a string that converts to an integer

== Error Conditions ==

* The first parameter must be a variable reference to a stringlist or intlist
* The second parameter must be an integer
* The third parameter must be compatible with the list type

== Performance ==

The insert function is more efficient than manually rebuilding a list when you need to insert elements at specific positions, as it operates directly on the underlying data structure.

== See Also ==

* [[stringlist]] - Information about stringlist data structure
* [[integerlist]] - Information about intlist data structure  
* [[addstring]] - Function to add strings to the end of a stringlist
* [[remove]] - Function to remove elements from a list
* [[length]] - Function to get the length of a list

== Notes ==

* The function modifies the list in-place
* Indexing is 0-based
* The list is automatically expanded if inserting beyond current bounds
* Empty positions are filled with default values (empty strings or 0 for integers)