= islight =

; islight : integer ( u : unitptr )
: Tests whether a unit is a light source.

== Description ==

The '''islight''' function checks if the specified unit is a light source. This typically includes items like torches, lanterns, and other objects that can illuminate rooms. The function returns TRUE (1) if the unit is a light source, or FALSE (0) if not.

== Parameters ==

; u : unitptr
: The unit to be checked. Can be any unit type, but typically used with objects.

== Return Value ==

; integer
: Returns TRUE (1) if the unit is a light source, or FALSE (0) if it is not.

== Examples ==

=== Basic Light Check ===
 if (islight(self))
   sendtext("This item provides light.", self);
 
This checks if the current unit is a light source and sends a message if so.

=== Room Lighting Check ===
 if (not islight(self.outside))
 {
    act("It is pitch black.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
    return;
 }
 
This example from a directions DIL checks if the room (self.outside) has light, and if not, informs the player that it's pitch black.

=== Light Source Inventory Check ===
 foreach (UNIT_ST_OBJ, i)
 {
    if (islight(i))
    {
       act("$1n glows with light.", A_SOMEONE, i, null, null, TO_ROOM);
    }
 }
 
This iterates through all objects and identifies which ones are light sources.

== Usage Notes ==

* Light sources are typically objects with ITEM_LIGHT object type
* The function checks the unit's internal light-emitting properties
* Use '''setbright()''' to modify how much light a unit emits
* The '''bright''' field of a unit indicates how much light it produces
* The '''light''' field shows how much light is currently inside a unit
* Light sources are essential for visibility in dark rooms

== Related Fields ==

; bright : integer (RO)
: How much the unit lights up. Can be set with '''setbright()'''

; light : integer (RO)  
: How much light is inside the unit

; illum : integer (RO)
: How much light units inside a transparent unit create

== See Also ==

; setbright : Sets the brightness of a unit
; objecttype : The type of an object (ITEM_* constants)
; bright : Field showing how much light a unit emits