= left =
 function: string '''left'''(input : string, length : integer);

The '''left''' function extracts the leftmost characters from a string.

== Description ==

The '''left''' function extracts a specified number of characters from the beginning (left side) of a string. If the requested length is longer than the input string, the entire string is returned.

This function is commonly used for string prefix matching, extracting substrings from the beginning of text, command parsing and abbreviation handling.

== Parameters ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| input || string || The original string to be parsed
|-
| length || integer || The number of characters to extract from the left side of the string
|}

== Return Value ==

; string
: Returns the left portion of the input string with the specified length. Returns '''null''' if:
* The input string is empty
* The length parameter is 0
* Either parameter is invalid

== Examples ==

=== Basic Usage ===
 result := left("shorten me", 5);
 // result contains "short"

Simple extraction of the first 5 characters.

=== Length Exceeds String ===
 result := left("hi", 10);
 // result contains "hi"

When length exceeds string length, the entire string is returned.

=== Command Abbreviation ===
 if (command == left("help", length(command))) {
    exec("help " + argument, self);
 }

Handles command abbreviations by matching prefixes.

=== Command System ===
 commands := {"look", "get", "drop", "inventory"};
 i := 0;
 while (i < length(commands)) {
    if (input == left(commands.[i], length(input))) {
        exec(commands.[i] + " " + rest, self);
        break;
    }
    i := i + 1;
 }

Advanced command abbreviation system that checks all possible matches.

== Usage Notes ==

* The function allocates new memory for the returned string
* If the input string is shorter than the requested length, the entire string is returned
* Empty strings or zero length requests return null
* This is the counterpart to the '''right''' function
* Commonly used in command parsing systems

== Error Handling ==

* Always validate input parameters before calling
* Check for null return values when using empty strings or zero length
* Ensure length parameter is positive

== See Also ==

; right : Extract characters from the right side of a string
; mid : Extract characters from the middle of a string
; length : Get the length of a string
; getwords : Split string into words