= length =
 function: integer '''length'''(input : string);
 function: integer '''length'''(input : stringlist);
 function: integer '''length'''(input : intlist);

The '''length''' function returns the size of strings, stringlists, or intlists.

== Description ==

The '''length''' function is a versatile function that can measure the size of three different data types. It's commonly used for looping through lists, string validation and processing, array bounds checking, and conditional logic based on data size.

== Parameters ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| input || string, stringlist, or intlist || The variable to measure the length of
|}

== Return Value ==

; integer
: Returns the length of the input:
* For strings: number of characters
* For stringlists: number of strings in the list
* For intlists: number of integers in the list
Returns '''0''' if the input is null or empty. Returns '''fail''' if the input type is invalid.

== Examples ==

=== String Length ===
 len := length("hello");
 // len contains 5

 len := length("");
 // len contains 0

=== Stringlist Length ===
 words := {"hello", "world", "test"};
 count := length(words);
 // count contains 3

 empty_list := {};
 count := length(empty_list);
 // count contains 0

=== Intlist Length ===
 numbers := {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
 count := length(numbers);
 // count contains 5

=== List Iteration ===
 i := 0;
 while (i < length(myintlist)) {
    // Process myintlist.[i]
    i := i + 1;
 }

Common pattern for iterating through all elements in a list.

=== Random Selection ===
 messages := {"Hello", "Goodbye", "Maybe later"};
 index := rnd(0, length(messages) - 1);
 exec("say " + messages.[index], self);

Randomly selects and displays a message from a list.

=== Processing All Elements ===
 i := 0;
 while (i < length(song_lines)) {
    exec("emote sings, '" + song_lines.[i] + "'", self);
    pause;
    i := i + 1;
 }

Processes each element in a stringlist sequentially.

== Usage Notes ==

* The function handles null inputs gracefully by returning 0
* For strings, this counts characters (not bytes)
* For lists, this returns the number of elements, not the highest index
* Invalid input types will cause the function to return fail
* Essential for proper loop bounds checking

== Error Handling ==

* Always check for fail return when input type might be invalid
* Handle null/empty inputs which return 0
* Use proper bounds checking when accessing list elements

== See Also ==

; stringlist : String array type
; intlist : Integer array type
; getwords : Split strings into stringlists
; rnd : Generate random numbers