= level =
 field: integer '''.level''' (Read-only)

The '''level''' field returns level information for characters and commands.

== Description ==

The '''level''' field provides access to level information for different unit types. When accessed on character units (PC/NPC), it returns the character's current level. When accessed on command pointers, it returns the minimum level required to use that command.

== Field Access ==

; unit.level : integer (Read-only)
: Returns the character's level for PC/NPC units.

; cmdptr.level : integer (Read-only)
: Returns the minimum level required to use the command.

== Availability ==

This field is available on the following unit types:
* UNIT_ST_PC (Player Character)
* UNIT_ST_NPC (Non-Player Character)
* cmdptr (Command pointer)

== Examples ==

=== Character Level Check ===
 if (activator.level > 20) {
    exec("say You are experienced enough to enter.", self);
 }

Checks if a player meets minimum level requirements.

=== Level Restriction ===
 if (pc.level < 253) {
    sendtext("You must be at least level 253 to use this command.", pc);
    quit;
 }

Prevents low-level players from using powerful commands.

=== Level Comparison ===
 if (self.level < target.level) {
    exec("say $2n is too powerful for me to fight.", self, target);
 }

Compares levels between two characters.

=== Command Level Requirement ===
 cmd := getcommand("kick");
 if (self.level < cmd.level) {
    sendtext("You must be level " + itoa(cmd.level) + " to use kick.", self);
 }

Checks if player meets command's level requirement.

=== Immortal Check ===
 if (self.level >= IMMORTAL_LEVEL) {
    exec("wizi", self);
 }

Allows immortal-only actions for high-level characters.

=== Command List ===
 cmd := chead();
 while (cmd) {
    sendtext(cmd.name + " (requires level " + itoa(cmd.level) + ")", self);
    cmd := cmd.next;
 }

Lists all commands with their level requirements.

== Usage Notes ==

* For characters, this field is read-only
* The level system typically ranges from 1 to 253 for players, with 200+ being immortal levels
* NPCs also have levels that determine their difficulty
* Command level requirements prevent low-level characters from using powerful commands
* The field returns fail if accessed on invalid unit types
* Essential for access control and content gating

== Error Handling ==

* Function returns fail if accessed on invalid unit types
* Always validate unit type before accessing level field
* Handle cases where level might not be available

== See Also ==

; vlevel : Virtual level field
; experience : Experience points field
; cmdptr : Command pointer type
; getcommand : Get a specific command pointer
; chead : Get first command in list