= openroll =
 function: integer '''openroll'''(dice : integer, end : integer);

== Description ==
The '''openroll'''() function generates an open-ended dice roll with a specified margin. This function produces random integers that follow a bell curve distribution, where results near the center are more likely than extreme values.

Based on the C implementation, this function performs an open-ended roll where values can continue indefinitely in both directions, but with decreasing probability for extreme results.

== Parameters ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| dice || integer || The size of the dice being rolled (determines the range)
|-
| end || integer || The margin for the open-ended roll (controls probability distribution)
|}

== Return Value ==
Returns integer:
* '''integer''' - A random integer following open-ended dice distribution
* '''fail''' - If parameters are invalid

== Usage Notes ==
The function generates values in approximately +/- 2^31 range in worst case scenarios.
The '''dice''' parameter determines the base range and probability distribution.
The '''end''' parameter sets the margin where results can continue open-ended.
Results near the center are more probable than extreme values.
This is useful for skill checks, damage rolls, and other randomization needs.

== Examples ==
=== Basic Open Roll ===
 dilbegin basic_openroll();
 var
    result : integer;
 
 code
 {
    // Roll 1-100 with open-ended continuation
    result := openroll(100, 5);
    
    act("Open roll result: $1d", A_ALWAYS, self, result, null, TO_CHAR);
    
    if (result > 100)
       act("Exceptional success! ($1d)", A_ALWAYS, self, result, null, TO_CHAR);
    else if (result < 1)
       act("Critical failure! ($1d)", A_ALWAYS, self, result, null, TO_CHAR);
    else
       act("Normal result: $1d", A_ALWAYS, self, result, null, TO_CHAR);
 } dilend

=== Skill Check Simulation ===
 dilbegin skill_check(difficulty : integer);
 var
    roll : integer;
    success : integer;
 
 code
 {
    // Roll against difficulty with open-ended dice
    roll := openroll(50, 10);
    
    if (roll >= difficulty)
    {
       success := roll - difficulty + 50; // Success margin
       act("Skill check: $1d vs $2d = SUCCESS by $3d", 
          A_ALWAYS, self, roll, difficulty, success, TO_CHAR);
    }
    else
    {
       success := roll - difficulty - 50; // Failure margin
       act("Skill check: $1d vs $2d = FAILURE by $3d", 
          A_ALWAYS, self, roll, difficulty, success, TO_CHAR);
    }
 } dilend

== Error Handling ==
Always validate parameters are positive integers:

 if ((dice > 0) and (end >= 0))
 {
    result := openroll(dice, end);
 }
 else
 {
    act("Invalid parameters for openroll.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
    return;
 }

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[rnd]] - Basic random number generation
* [[dice]] - Traditional dice rolling
* [[random]] - Random number generation
* [[skillchecksa]] - Skill checking system

== See Also ==
* [[dice]] - Standard dice rolling
* [[rnd]] - Random number generation
* [[skillchecksa]] - Skill resolution system
* [[random]] - General randomization