= outside_descr =
 field: string '''.outside_descr''' (Read/Write)

== Description ==
The '''outside_descr''' field provides access to the description of a unit as seen from the outside. This field contains the text that players see when looking at a unit from an external perspective.

Based on the C implementation, this field returns a reference to the unit's outside description string, allowing both reading and writing of the description.

== Field Access ==
This is a field access on unitptrs:
 unit.outside_descr

== Availability ==
This field is available on the following unit types:
* UNIT_ST_PC (Player Character)
* UNIT_ST_NPC (Non-Player Character)
* UNIT_ST_OBJ (Object)
* UNIT_ST_ROOM (Room)

== Usage Notes ==
The outside_descr field is read-write (RW) and can be modified directly.
This field contains the description text seen when looking at unit from outside.
For rooms, this is typically the description seen when entering or looking from adjacent rooms.
For objects, this is the description seen when examining the object from outside.
For characters, this is the description seen by others when looking at the character.

== Examples ==
=== Reading Outside Description ===
 dilbegin examine_outside(target : unitptr);
 var
    description : string;
 
 code
 {
    if (target == null)
    {
       act("No target specified.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
       return;
    }
    
    description := target.outside_descr;
    
    if (description == "")
       act("$1n has no outside description.", A_ALWAYS, self, target, null, TO_CHAR);
    else
       act("$1n's outside description:", A_ALWAYS, self, target, null, TO_CHAR);
       act(description, A_ALWAYS, self, target, null, TO_CHAR);
 } dilend

=== Setting Outside Description ===
 dilbegin set_outside_description(target : unitptr, new_desc : string);
 var
    old_desc : string;
 
 code
 {
    if (target == null)
    {
       act("No target specified.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
       return;
    }
    
    old_desc := target.outside_descr;
    target.outside_descr := new_desc;
    
    act("$1n's outside description changed.", A_ALWAYS, self, target, null, TO_CHAR);
    act("Old: $1t", A_ALWAYS, self, old_desc, target, TO_CHAR);
    act("New: $1t", A_ALWAYS, self, new_desc, target, TO_CHAR);
 } dilend

== Error Handling ==
Always verify that unit pointer is valid before accessing outside_descr:

 if (unit != null)
 {
    description := unit.outside_descr;
 }
 else
 {
    act("Invalid unit pointer.", A_ALWAYS, self, null, null, TO_CHAR);
 }

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[inside_descr]] - Description seen from inside
* [[title]] - Unit title field
* [[names]] - Unit names list
* [[extra]] - Extra descriptions
* [[description]] - General description field

== See Also ==
* [[unitptr]] - General unit pointer documentation
* [[inside_descr]] - Internal description field
* [[title]] - Unit title field
* [[extra]] - Extra description system
* [[sact]] - String action construction
* [[act]] - Action function for displaying descriptions