= subaff =
function: '''subaff'''(u : unitptr, i : integer);

The '''subaff''' function removes the first affect with a specified ID from a unit.

== Description ==
This function searches through a unit's affects and removes the first affect that matches the specified ID. The function operates on the affect list in order, removing only the first occurrence found with the matching ID.

The function is commonly used to remove specific spell effects, status conditions, or temporary modifications from characters. It's particularly useful in spell removal systems, cure effects, and affect management routines.

== Parameters ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| u || unitptr || The unit to remove the affect from
|-
| i || integer || The affect ID to remove (see ID_* constants in values.h/vme.h)
|}

== Return Value ==
The function does not return a value.

== Examples ==
=== Remove Blindness Effect ===
 dilbegin cure_blindness(pc : unitptr);
 var
   i : integer;
 code
 {
   if (pc.type != UNIT_ST_PC and pc.type != UNIT_ST_NPC)
   {
     sendtext("Target must be a character.<br/>", self);
     quit;
   }
   
   // Remove blindness affect
   subaff(pc, ID_BLIND_CHAR);
   
   sendtext("Blindness effect removed.<br/>", pc);
 }
 dilend

=== Remove Multiple Effects ===
 dilbegin remove_spell_effects(pc : unitptr);
 var
   i : integer;
 code
 {
   if (pc.type != UNIT_ST_PC and pc.type != UNIT_ST_NPC)
   {
     sendtext("Target must be a character.<br/>", self);
     quit;
   }
   
   // Remove various spell effects
   subaff(pc, ID_SPL_POISON);
   subaff(pc, ID_SPL_CURSE);
   subaff(pc, ID_SPL_SLEEP);
   
   sendtext("Multiple spell effects removed.<br/>", pc);
 }
 dilend

=== Conditional Affect Removal ===
 dilbegin conditional_removal(pc : unitptr);
 var
   i : integer;
 code
 {
   if (pc.type != UNIT_ST_PC and pc.type != UNIT_ST_NPC)
   {
     sendtext("Target must be a character.<br/>", self);
     quit;
   }
   
   // Remove affects based on conditions
   i := 0;
   while (i < 100)
   {
     if (isaff(pc, ID_SPL_POISON + i))
     {
       subaff(pc, ID_SPL_POISON + i);
       sendtext("Removed poison effect " + itoa(i) + "<br/>", self);
     }
     
     i := i + 1;
   }
 }
 dilend

== Usage Notes ==
* The function removes only the first matching affect found
* Use [[isaff]]() to check if a specific affect is present
* Use [[getaffects]]() to get a list of all current affects
* Affect IDs are defined as ID_* constants in values.h/vme.h
* The function operates on the affect list in order (first match first)
* Common affect IDs include: ID_BLIND_CHAR, ID_SPL_POISON, ID_SPL_CURSE, etc.
* The function is commonly used in cure spells, effect removal, and status management

== Error Handling ==
The function handles errors in the following ways:
* Invalid unit type (not PC/NPC) causes no action
* Invalid affect ID causes no action
* Null unit pointer causes no action
* No runtime errors are generated for valid parameters

Always validate that the target is a character and the affect ID is valid before calling the function.

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[isaff]] - Check if a unit has a specific affect
* [[addaff]] - Add an affect to a unit
* [[getaffects]] - Get a list of all affects on a unit
* [[subextra]] - Remove extra descriptions from units
* unitptr.affected field - Access to affect system

== See Also ==
* DIL Affect System Documentation
* ID_* constants for affect identification
* Spell and effect management systems
* Character status and condition systems