= tolower =
 function: string '''tolower'''(s : string);

The '''tolower''' function converts all characters in a string to lowercase.

== Description ==
This function returns a new string with all alphabetic characters converted to their lowercase equivalents. The original string is not modified; instead, a new lowercase copy is created and returned. This function is commonly used for case-insensitive string comparisons, normalization, and text processing.

== PARAMETERS ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| s || string || The input string to be converted to lowercase
|}

== Examples ==
dilbegin unique case_insensitive_check(input : string);
var
    lower_input : string;
code
{
    // Convert input to lowercase for comparison
    lower_input := tolower(input);
    
    if (lower_input == "yes")
    {
        sendto("You answered YES!&n", self);
    }
    else if (lower_input == "no")
    {
        sendto("You answered NO!&n", self);
    }
    else
    {
        sendto("You answered: " + input + "&n", self);
    }
} dilend

dilbegin unique normalize_name(name : string);
var
    normal_name : string;
code
{
    // Normalize a name to lowercase for storage/lookup
    normal_name := tolower(name);
    sendto("Normalized name: " + normal_name + "&n", self);
    
    // Example usage with restore function (from mail system)
    // ml := restore(normal_name, null);
} dilend

dilbegin unique string_processing();
var
    mixed_case : string;
    lower_case : string;
code
{
    mixed_case := "Hello WORLD! 123";
    lower_case := tolower(mixed_case);
    
    sendto("Original: " + mixed_case + "&n", self);
    sendto("Lowercase: " + lower_case + "&n", self);
    // Output: "hello world! 123"
} dilend

== Usage Notes ==
* The function only affects alphabetic characters; numbers, symbols, and whitespace remain unchanged.
* Non-alphabetic characters are passed through unchanged.
* The function returns a new string; the original input string is not modified.
* Empty strings return empty strings (null pointer in C implementation).
* This function is useful for case-insensitive comparisons and text normalization.
* The function handles null input gracefully by returning a fail condition.

== Error Handling ==
* If the input parameter is not a string, a DIL fatal error occurs: "Arg 1 of 'tolower' not a string."
* If the input string is null or empty, the function returns a null/empty string.
* The function will fail gracefully if memory allocation for the new string fails.

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[toupper]] - Converts all characters in a string to uppercase
* [[restore]] - Restores data from storage (often used with tolower for filename normalization)
* [[savestr]] - Saves strings to disk for later retrieval

== See Also ==
* String manipulation functions
* Case conversion functions
* File system functions (for filename normalization)