= toupper =
 function: string '''toupper'''(s : string);

The '''toupper''' function converts all characters in a string to uppercase.

== Description ==
This function returns a new string with all alphabetic characters converted to their uppercase equivalents. The original string is not modified; instead, a new uppercase copy is created and returned. This function is commonly used for text formatting, emphasis, and case-insensitive string comparisons.

== Parameters ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| s || string || The input string to be converted to uppercase
|}

== Examples ==
=== Capitalize First Letter ===
 dilbegin capitalize_first_letter(text : string);
 var
     first_char : string;
     rest : string;
     result : string;
 code
 {
     // Capitalize first letter only (common pattern from graffiti example)
     first_char := toupper(left(text, 1));
     rest := right(text, length(text) - 1);
     result := first_char + rest;
     
     sendtext("Capitalized: " + result + "<br/>", self);
 } dilend

=== Emphasize Text ===
 dilbegin emphasize_text(input : string);
 var
     emphasized : string;
 code
 {
     // Convert entire string to uppercase for emphasis
     emphasized := toupper(input);
     sendtext("EMPHASIZED: " + emphasized + "<br/>", self);
 } dilend

=== Graffiti Format ===
 dilbegin graffiti_format(color : string, style : string);
 var
     formatted_text : string;
 code
 {
     // Format graffiti text (from example)
     formatted_text := toupper(left(style, 1)) + right(style, length(style) - 1);
     sendtext("<div class='" + color + "'>" + formatted_text + " graffiti is painted all over!</div><br/>", self);
 } dilend

=== Case Insensitive Compare ===
 dilbegin case_insensitive_compare(input1 : string, input2 : string);
 var
     upper1 : string;
     upper2 : string;
 code
 {
     // Case-insensitive comparison using toupper
     upper1 := toupper(input1);
     upper2 := toupper(input2);
     
     if (upper1 == upper2)
     {
         sendtext("The strings match (case-insensitive)!<br/>", self);
     }
     else
     {
         sendtext("The strings do not match.<br/>", self);
     }
 } dilend

dilbegin unique emphasize_text(input : string);
var
    emphasized : string;
code
{
    // Convert entire string to uppercase for emphasis
    emphasized := toupper(input);
    sendto("EMPHASIZED: " + emphasized + "&n", self);
} dilend

dilbegin unique graffiti_format(color : string, style : string);
var
    formatted_text : string;
code
{
    // Format graffiti text (from the example)
    formatted_text := toupper(left(style, 1)) + right(style, length(style) - 1);
    sendto("<div class='" + color + "'>" + formatted_text + " graffiti is painted all over!</div>&n", self);
} dilend

dilbegin unique case_insensitive_compare(input1 : string, input2 : string);
var
    upper1 : string;
    upper2 : string;
code
{
    // Case-insensitive comparison using toupper
    upper1 := toupper(input1);
    upper2 := toupper(input2);
    
    if (upper1 == upper2)
    {
        sendto("The strings match (case-insensitive)!&n", self);
    }
    else
    {
        sendto("The strings do not match.&n", self);
    }
} dilend

== Usage Notes ==
* The function only affects alphabetic characters; numbers, symbols, and whitespace remain unchanged.
* Non-alphabetic characters are passed through unchanged.
* The function returns a new string; the original input string is not modified.
* Empty strings return empty strings (null pointer in C implementation).
* This function is useful for text formatting, emphasis, and case-insensitive comparisons.
* The function handles null input gracefully by returning a fail condition.
* Common pattern: `toupper(left(text, 1)) + right(text, length(text) - 1)` to capitalize only the first letter.

== Error Handling ==
* If the input parameter is not a string, a DIL fatal error occurs: "Arg 1 of 'toupper' not a string."
* If the input string is null or empty, the function returns a null/empty string.
* The function will fail gracefully if memory allocation for the new string fails.

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/tolower|tolower]] - Converts all characters in a string to lowercase
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/left|left]] - Extracts left portion of a string
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/right|right]] - Extracts right portion of a string
* [[Manual:DIL_Manual/length|length]] - Returns the length of a string

== See Also ==
* String manipulation functions
* Case conversion functions
* Text formatting functions