= unitdir =
 function: stringlist '''unitdir'''(match : string);

The '''unitdir''' function returns a list of unit files matching a pattern.

== Description ==
This function searches the units directory for files matching the specified pattern and returns them as a stringlist. The pattern parameter supports Linux-style wildcards including asterisk (*) for any characters, question mark (?) for single characters, and character classes ([...]). This function is commonly used for finding and loading unit files based on naming patterns.

== PARAMETERS ==
{| class="wikitable"
! Parameter !! Type !! Description
|-
| match || string || The wildcard pattern to match against filenames in the units directory
|}

== Examples ==
dilbegin unique find_corpses();
var
    corpselist : stringlist;
    i : integer;
    corpse : unitptr;
code
{
    // Find all files starting with "corpse"
    corpselist := unitdir("corpse*");
    
    sendto("Found " + itoa(length(corpselist)) + " corpse files:&n", self);
    
    // Process each corpse file
    for (i := 0; i < length(corpselist); i := i + 1)
    {
        sendto("  " + corpselist.[i] + "&n", self);
        
        // Optionally restore the corpse
        corpse := restore(corpselist.[i], null);
        if (corpse != null)
        {
            // Process corpse...
        }
    }
} dilend

dilbegin unique load_by_pattern(pattern : string);
var
    filelist : stringlist;
    i : integer;
    unit : unitptr;
code
{
    // Get all files matching the pattern
    filelist := unitdir(pattern);
    
    if (length(filelist) == 0)
    {
        sendto("No files found matching pattern: " + pattern + "&n", self);
        quit;
    }
    
    sendto("Files matching '" + pattern + "':&n", self);
    for (i := 0; i < length(filelist); i := i + 1)
    {
        sendto("  " + filelist.[i] + "&n", self);
        
        // Example: restore the first matching file
        if (i == 0)
        {
            unit := restore(filelist.[i], null);
            if (unit != null)
            {
                sendto("  Restored: " + unit.name + "&n", self);
            }
        }
    }
} dilend

dilbegin unique pattern_examples();
code
{
    // Different pattern matching examples
    sendto("Pattern matching examples:&n", self);
    
    // Match all files
    sendto("unitdir(\"*\") - All files&n", self);
    
    // Match files with specific prefix
    sendto("unitdir(\"sword*\") - Files starting with 'sword'&n", self);
    
    // Match single character wildcard
    sendto("unitdir(\"corpse?\") - 'corpse1', 'corpse2', etc.&n", self);
    
    // Match character class
    sendto("unitdir(\"[abc]*\") - Files starting with a, b, or c&n", self);
    
    // Match specific patterns
    sendto("unitdir(\"start[nm]end\") - 'startnend', 'startmend'&n", self);
} dilend

dilbegin unique reload_all_units();
var
    all_units : stringlist;
    i : integer;
    unit : unitptr;
code
{
    // Get all unit files and reload them
    all_units := unitdir(".*");
    
    sendto("Reloading all " + itoa(length(all_units)) + " unit files...&n", self);
    
    for (i := 0; i < length(all_units); i := i + 1)
    {
        unit := restore(all_units.[i], null);
        if (unit != null)
        {
            sendto("  Reloaded: " + unit.name + "&n", self);
        }
        else
        {
            sendto("  Failed to load: " + all_units.[i] + "&n", self);
        }
    }
} dilend

== Usage Notes ==
* The function searches the units subdirectory of the current zone's DIL file path.
* Pattern matching follows Linux shell wildcard rules:
** * - Matches any sequence of characters
** ? - Matches any single character  
** [...] - Matches any one of the enclosed characters
* The function returns a stringlist containing only the matching filenames (not full paths).
* Commonly used with [[restore]]() function to load matching unit files.
* If no files match the pattern, an empty stringlist is returned.
* The pattern matching is case-sensitive.
* Useful for batch operations on groups of related unit files.

== Error Handling ==
* If the match parameter is not a string, a DIL fatal error occurs: "Arg 1 of 'unitdir' not string".
* If the units directory doesn't exist or is inaccessible, the function returns an empty stringlist.
* If the pattern contains invalid regex syntax, the function may fail or return unexpected results.
* File system errors (permissions, etc.) will result in an empty stringlist being returned.

== Related Functions/Fields ==
* [[restore]] - Loads a unit from a file
* [[savestr]] - Saves string data to files
* [[loadstr]] - Loads string data from files
* [[delstr]] - Deletes files

== See Also ==
* File system functions
* Pattern matching functions
* Unit management functions